# Writers Guild Tier 3 Term Length Proposal
Author: nonsensetwice#3475
Date: September 14, 2022

TABLE OF CONTENTS
1. Definitions
2. Background
3. Solution & tl;dr
4. Reasoning
5. Implementation

## DEFINITIONS

As of this writing, the nomenclature for the Writers Guild (hereafter, the
Guild) tiered membership system is still being considered. We want to have
more fun with it, but have not settled on what that fun looks like. Rather
than create confusion around tier names, the tiers will be simplified as
follows:

- Tier 1 represents the lowest membership, or entry level tier, what is
currently referred to as “Pupil” in the Governance Framework;
- Tier 2 represents the middle tier, which is currently referred to as
“Scribbler; and
- Tier 3 represents the full membership tier, which is currently referred to
as “Scribe.”

## BACKGROUND

Currently, there is no clearly defined term for Tier 3 status in the Guild’s
Governance Framework. The Governance Framework does not specify if Tier 3 is
awarded for any length of time, or if it is awarded permanently. This
proposal aims to clearly define Tier 3 term length.

## SOLUTION & tl;dr

Members have come to soft consensus that Tier 3 status will be viable for a
term of six (6) months, during which time Tier 3 members will be required to
meet the minimum qualifications for Tier 3 membership in order to maintain
it. Every time a Tier 3 member completes the minimum qualifications within
this time frame, their status is renewed for six (6) months from the time of
renewal. Failure to renew during these six (6) months will result in loss of
status and privilege. Reinstatement will require that a member complete the
minimum qualifications to achieve Tier 3 once again.

## REASONING

Ultimately, we want to be as inclusive as possible, while yet remaining good
stewards of our organization now, and for the future iterations of our
membership. This means ensuring that everyone who participates in our
governance processes is well aware of the state of the Guild in how we
operate and the direction we’re moving in. Participation and contribution is
key to understanding this. There wasn’t much contention around this topic.
The discussion regarding a Tier 3 term wasn’t so much about if one should
exist but rather for how long. To require Tier 3 membership to be renewed
every season single seemed to be too much of a lift, while renewing over a
year seemed to be too long. 150 and 180 days were the numbers that were
thrown around, with six (6) months taking the soft consensus.

## IMPLEMENTATION

Upon ratification of this proposal, the Guild’s Governance Framework will be
updated to include verbiage stating a six month term for Tier 3 upon
achievement, and this proposal will be implemented immediately. Current Tier
3 members will be provided six (6) months of Tier 3 status from the date of
ratification. Any members who meet the minimum qualifications for Tier 3
during this season will be awarded Tier 3 and also provided six (6) months of
Tier 3 status.